- [Instructor] Now, throughout this course,
you've been introduced to JDBC, RDBMS,
and all kinds of stuff.
And I want to give you a little bit of a rundown
of what we've looked at
before we jump into where you should go next.
So again, we introduced the concepts of RDBMS, JDBC,
and the Postgres database
that we were going to use throughout this course.
We then jumped into code
and talked about basic CRUD operations,
and you had a challenge exercise
where you got to work on a DAO that spanned multiple tables.
Then we jumped at some advanced concepts
like paging, sorting, and using stored procedures.
And then we did some very basic introduction in transactions
and transaction management,
and we also talked about commits and rollbacks,
and exception handling.
Now, we've taken all of this as a whirlwind
of information in this course,
but where do you go next?
Well, I alluded to it a little bit ago
when I talked about JPA,
that you definitely should go learn JPA
and other ORM technologies out there.
You should also study Spring data access patterns.
In my opinion, Spring data access
is one of the far superior ways of doing
data access within the Java language.
But that again is my biased opinion,
but at least study it to see how they do data access.
You might learn a thing or two,
even if you don't want to use Spring,
I do highly encourage you to learn Hibernate,
and learn Hibernate how it works, not just how to use it,
because then you can study
the pros and the cons of Hibernate.
I have built very large systems leveraging Hibernate,
but I've also shot myself in the foot more than once.
So, consider that.
And the only way to really do that
is to play with it and learn the technology itself.
And regardless of which way you go,
whether you do JPA and ORM or you do Spring data
or Spring data JDBC,
I highly encourage you to learn SQL.
If you're doing RDBMS systems development,
SQL is your friend.
The better you understand it,
the better you're going to troubleshoot performance,
the better you're going to write quality queries,
and the better you're going to get code out the door
that is usable by multiple systems.
Finally, I would just want to tell you
how much I appreciate you spending your time with me.
I know that your time is valuable as a developer,
and whenever you take your time
to listen to one of my courses,
it actually does matter to me,
because I believe that this is my calling
to get information out,
and I appreciate you taking the time to be with me.
I highly encourage you, if you watch any of my courses,
to reach out to me on LinkedIn.
Can also follow me on Twitter @fpmoles.
And I'm on Stack Overflow.
I answer questions from developers
who watch my videos all the time,
and I do so through one of these mechanisms.
Please, if you have any questions
about this video or any of my videos,
or if you just want to ask
some general development questions
or get involved in some of the conversations
that I'm involved in,
these are great media by which to reach out to me
and to find what is actually getting me moving
on a daily basis.
And after all, in a community setting,
that's how we all get along.
Thanks again for your time,
and I hope you learned a little bit about JDBC,
so that you can take it to the next level.